TDVT - Tableau Datasource Verification Tool

Requirements
    Python 3.

Configuration
        Edit tdvt/config/tdvt/tdvt.ini and set the path to tabquerycli.exe.

How it works
---------------
The TDVT consists of Python scripts that create a test framework around TabQueryCLI.exe. The inputs are an expression test file or a logical query and a TDS. The outputs are rows of data from executing the query and are compared to an expected file.

The TDVT can run either expression tests or logical query tests. Expression tests are text files that contain Tableau calculation language expressions (ie anything you could type into an edit calculation dialog). These expressions are parsed and compiled as individual queries which are then run and the results saved.
    Logical query tests are 'logical-query' elements. These are parsed and run like the expression tests and the results are saved.
    Either method requires a config file that lists the individual tests you want to run. See tableau-tests/tdvt/examples/expression.cfg.  The file consists of an 'allow:' section and a list of individual filenames, directories, or a wildcard search. The exclude section consists of a directory or a wildcard filename search.
    Logical queries are unique to each datasource since they currently contain a reference to the relation (ie [dbo].[Calcs] for SQL Server vs [Calcs] for MySQL).

    You can use '--verbose' to get more information. The TDVT also generates a log file 'tdvt_log.txt'.
    For each input file the tdvt script calls TabQueryCLI.exe to run the query and then compares the results to an expected file. Multiple expected files are supported. For example, in the tableau-tests/tdvt/examples directory there is an expression test named setup.string.right.txt. You can run that for mysql using:
    tdvt -e examples/expr.cfg -d cast_calcs.mysql.tds --verbose
The expected file is expected.setup.string.right.txt.
The output is 'test_results.csv' which contains an overview of the test results. These are easy to visualize in Tableau.

Normally the resulting tuples of data are compared. You can also compare the generated SQL using the '--compare-sql' option. For example:
..\tdvt -e expr.cfg -d ../tds/cast_calcs.postgres91.tds --verbose --compare-sql
In this case you will see 'actual.setup.string.right.txt' which contains the 'failed' results from PostGres.

You can skip comparing tuples by using '--nocompare-tuples'. This will mean the tests compares nothing, or if you have --compare-sql turned on then just that will be compared.

The logical query tests work the same way. The only difference is that there are variations of the setup files since each one is datasource specific. There is still one expected file, which does not contain the datasource name in the filename. The tests should match this or a numbered variation.

TDVT_Runner
---------------
The tdvt_runner.py file can be used to define groups of tests and run some or all of them.
Try `tdvt_runner.py -h` for the latest usage information.
`tdvt_runner --run postgres_generic_example`
`tdvt_runner --run all`

To show the registered datasources and suites run: `tdvt_runner --list`

The results are combined into a csv file called test_results_combined.csv. Try loading them in Tableau.

To run expression tests:
`tdvt_runner --run postgres_generic_example -e`
To run logical query tests:
`tdvt_runner --run postgres_generic_example -q`

File structure
---------------

        tdvt/tdvt_runner.py - Script to define and run groups of tests using tdvt.
        tdvt/tdvt.py - The test tool.
        tdvt/src/config.py - Configure the path to tabquerycli.exe here.
        tdvt/config - Ini files that configure test suites.
        tdvt/config/gen - Config files to run tests. These are auto-generated by running tdvt --generate
        tdvt/config/registry - You can create more elaborate groups of test suite here.
        tdvt/config_gen - Files that drive configuration.
        tdvt/exprtests - The expression based tests and expected files.
        tdvt/logicaltests - The logical query tests and expected files.
        tdvt/logicaltests/expected - Logical query test expected files.
        tdvt/logicaltests/setup - Logical query tests generated setup files.
        tdvt/logicaltests/generate - Tools to generate the logical queries specific to each datasource.
        tdvt/tds - Tds files.
        test/tool_test - Internal tdvt tests.


Adding a new datasource
---------------
Adding a new datasource is easy. To run the expression tests first create a tds file that connectis to the Calcs table on your database.
1. The easiest way to create this is to connect to the table in Tableau desktop and then right click on the datasource and pick 'Add to Saved Datasources'. Save this in the tdvt/tds directory.
2. Open the tds file in a text editor and embed the password in the <connection> tag of the tds file.
3. Rename the connection names to 'leaf'. See one of the checked in tds files for an example. `<named-connection name='leaf'> and <relation connection='leaf' >`
4. Create an ini file in tdvt/config. The ini file names the test suite and specifies which tests to run.
5. Run: `tdvt --generate`

Now you can run the tests using `tdvt_runner.py --run your_suite_name`

TDC files are also supported through the Tableau Repository.

Logical query files take a little more work since they need to be customized to the datasource. 
1. Create a tds file that connects to the Staples table on your database.
2. Open the tds in a text editor and look for the relation xml tag. For example: `<relation connection='leaf' name='Calcs' table='[dbo].[Calcs]'>`
3. Note the value for 'table', in this case '[dbo].[Calcs]'.
4. Open tdvt/logicaltests/generate/templates.py and search for a value that matches your table value. In this case 'dbo' matches.
5. Add this line to your ini file under the [Datasource] heading: LogicalQueryFormat = dbo
6. run: `tdvt --generate`

Verify your new test suite by running: tdvt_runner --list your_datasource_name
It should show you a list of test suites associated with this datasource.

INI file structure
---------------
[Datasource]
Name = your_datasource_name
LogicalQueryFormat = dbo

[StandardTests]
*\#You can put in comma separated string values that match part or all of a test name to exclude them. The asterix works as a wildcard.*
LogicalExclusions_Calcs = string.right
LogicalExclusions_Staples = Filter.Trademark
ExpressionExclusions_Standard = string.ascii,string.char,logical

*#If you remove this section the your test sute will not include the Level of Detail tests.*
[LODTests]
*\#You don't need to specify anything to add this test suite, but you can exclude tests here too:*
*LogicalExclusions_Staples = *
*ExpressionExclusions_Calcs = *

*#This test will verify that your Staples table is loaded correctly.* 
[StaplesDataTest]

*\#You can add a new arbitrary test suite like this.*
[NewExpressionTest1]
*You could add a new logical test instead:*
*[NewLogicalTest1]*
Name = expression_test_dates.
TDS = cast_calcs.your_datasource.tds
Exclusions = string.ascii,string.char
TestPath = exprtests/standard/

TDC Files and Logging
---------------
TDC files are supported either in the My Tableau Repository, or embedded in the TDS file.
Tableau desktop style logs will be found in your My Tableau Repository. TDVT logs will be found in the main TDVT directory.

Output
---------------
tdvt_actuals.zip - Zipped actual files from a test run.
tdvt_log.txt - Verbose logging from tdvt.
tdvt_output.json - JSON output of test results. Suitable for re-running failed tests. See tdvt --help.
tdvt_results.csv - Tableau friendly result file. Load with a double quote text qualifier.

The above files have versions named *_combined.*, such as tdvt_log_combined.txt. This indicates the file contains combined results from tdvt_runner.

TDS Workaround
---------------
Sometimes you may need to rename a column in the tds. For example see cast_calcs.mysql.tds. The database defines columns like [[bool0_]] whereas the TDVT tests expect a column named [[bool0]]. You can re-map these in the tds by adding a column definition like this:

<column datatype='boolean' name='[bool0]' role='dimension' type='nominal'>

    <calculation class='tableau' formula='[bool0_]!=0' />

</column>



